# Networking

## Benefits and constraints of network types and standards

### Peer-based
A peer-to-peer network is created when two or more PCs are connected and share resources without going through a different/seperate server computer. On peer-to-peer networks each computer in theory is the same and can communicate with any computer on its network, to which it has been granted to. By contrast, every computer on a peer-to-peer network can be used as a client as-well as a server, in simple terms any system/computer on a peer-to-peer network can be used/seen as a server if it shares a drive, a folder, a printer or some other resource with the rest of the network. Most networks main purpose is to share recources such as backup systems, input devices, dedicated servers and printers. Additionally, networks can help with the sharing of data such as files, emails and other various types of data. Peer-based networking has both disadvantages and advantages that need to be taken into account. A few advantages would be that it is very easy to set up, there is no need for a dedicated server as all nodes (computer) act as a server as well as a client and finally as well as it being easy to set up it is also very inexpensive. Resource sharing and its implications are a huge part of networking. A few examples of peer-to-peer resource/information sharing software include things like: BitTorrent, Spotify and Skype. Peer-to-peer technology allows client computers on the same network to share their own resources such as filestone, processing power and peripherals. When it comes to traditional computer systems the resources are placed on a centrally-managed server, which can be accessed by client machines that are connected to the central server, also knows as a 'client server'. A constraint/disadvantage of peer-to-peer software is that most applications dont give the user much control over how their bandwidth is used. Communicating within peer-to-peer networking is exceptionally easy, as peer-to-peer networking can be seen as a democracy, as each computer is seen as equal to the next and each PC can communicate with the next directly and do not have a main/centralized computer monitoring and/or controlling the communication on the network. The security and working practise of peer-to-peer networking are if a PC is connected to a peer based network then there is the chance that another PC on the home network will access files that the owner might not want to be accessed. Althought his might be the case Windows provides the ability to block access to certain drives. peer-to-peer based networks are perfect for group work or businesses where everyones work needs to be shared or ideas need to be shared around. In a business environment when projects need to have alot of work put into them and there is not time to email and exchnage information; it is more effective for the project and the business if members of the business can access any information needed within seconds. This can improve a businesses productivity and effectiveness. Collaboration within peer-to-peer works in a way which can get everyone involved. There are a few programs that offer peer-to-peer collaboration. For example when colaborating it will start off with a Peer determining the identiity of a peer who is interested in hosting a collaboration session. Next a request to host a session is sent and the host peer agrees to manage collaboration activity. The host will then invite contacts to a session which includes the requestor. The host peer may add remote peers to its contact manager. It also looks at all invitations sent and recieved, to see who has accepted, declined or just not answered. It may cancel invitations for those who have not answered. Now everyone is in and ready the host can start the collaboration session of  the game, bulletpin board, conference or other activity.

### Client server
This is a computer network where there is one main/centralized which is connected to a hub to which many less powerful/important computers/systems are connected called clients, the clients will run progrms and access data that has previously been stored on the server (the main computer). A few advantages of using Client server networks is the fact you have a lot of scalability as you can increase the capacity of clients and servers; any elements can be increased. Communications within A Client server network is different compared to a peer-to-peer network as unlike the peer-to-peer network instead of every computer interacting with each other, the clients (computers) will send requests to the server (main PC), the server will handle them by either completing the request or not completing it, then finally the server will send back the information. Additionally, another communication method within Client server is the RPC which stands for Remote Procedure calls which is a high level communication method, and it was designed to mimic procedure call mechanism but executing it over a network. The working practise for Client server can be seen as the fact the security of the using the Client server network is a lot higher than say peer-to-peer networking because within Client server networking there is one main server (PC) that controls and has more power over every other node (computer). the commercial opportunity/use of Client server networking can be used within a business where there are lots of emplyees using lots of computers. For example within most companies they will have a tech administrator depending on the size of the business This administrator will supervise the whole businesses computer throughout the day and control block, allow and deny what the employees can access and not access. Of course the administrator will have the server computer with the most power, where the employees with be the ones that dont have much control over access and things of this variety. Additionally, with this we come to information sharing which the administrator can also help to keep under wraps. If there are certain documents the CEOs or managers dont want getting out the administrator will make sure he and the other higher members of the companies are the only ones that can access these documents. As well as this he can help encrypt personal documents and files from other co-workers that they do not want to give anyone access too, this also relates to passwords for the employees and trying to reduce hackings. Finally, when collaborating, the administrator is able to control everyones computer to set up the collaborating activity securely and quickly. If the administrator does it invidivually  this can be seen as ineffective as it make take longer than if he were to give everyone a password and a username to connect to a server on their nodes. Althought it may seem ineffective for the administrator to do it one node at a time, this will make sure it is set up correctly and securely. If not the administrator will allow the nodes to connect to his server individually by giving them a password, username and so on.

### Cloud
A cloud in computing terms is the storing and accessing of data and programs over/within the internet instead of your typical hard drive. Cloud has nothing to do with your hard drive, when data is stored on your hard drive that is referred to as local storage. Everything you need for local storage is physically infront of you, making data accessing fast and easy to do. Additionally, the cloud is not about having a dedicated NAS hardware, (network attached storage) or a server on the residence. For computing to be classed as cloud computing you will need to access your programs, data or information over the internet or at the very least have that data synced with over forms of data over the internet. As cloud computing is done over the internet is can be done anywhere anytime, as long as you have a stable internet connection. Also using the cloud for business is a great way to save money as you do not need to fork out on huge expensive hardware for your premises, all you need is an internet connection and all your data can be accessed. You can access as many resources and you need, pretty much instantly and all you need to pay for is what you use, which is a huge plus for businesses as you waste nothing. A few advantages of Cloud based computing would be firstly as I mentioned earlier it is a lot cheaper than hardware based computing, as all you need is an internet connection and a computer, you dont need to buy expensive hardware, server and systems. Secondly, when it comes to hardware computing you either have to many servers and not enough people using them or not enough servers and too many people trying to use the few you have at one time. With cloud based computing you never have too many or too little just buy/order as many as you need and if you need anymore during a session or at any point, or have to many than you need, you can cancel any server or add a server at a moments notice. Lastly, it has never been easy to go global. With hardware computing it can be frustrating having to send data, or holding that data on a memory stick, and if you lose that memory stick, all your data gets lost with it; but with cloud based computing all your data is stored online so you can access it anywhere anytime and you can send it to anyone around the world almost instantly, this means you can provide your service in multiple regions, while keeping a lower latency to all your customers. As you may know the cloud is transforming the workplace and its work practise, businesses are ever evolving with technology and the cloud is helping businesses save money and become more efficent. When we talk about the CLoud and the commercial oppotunity of it we can speak about cost. If a business is using the cloud they dont need to buy huge expensive hardware, this being said someone who just uses the Cloud will be saving a lot of money and of course within a business saving money is important. Within the cloud you can send emails to one another with the know how it will get there secure and uninterupted; additionally, you can send information to anyone world wide at the click of a finger. That includes if they are the cloud them selves or using plain old hardware. Lastly, the collaboration within the Clous is easy. Anyone connected to the Cloud can share information with each other and collaborate as well. This can come in the form of connecting/collaborating to play or game or just simply sending an email. All of this is as secure as hardware computing, and some would say even more secure as you can not physically hold the Cloud holding all of your data, unlike hardware computing.

### Cluster 
This form of computing is easy to understand and even use, cluster computing is when a party of computers are joint/linked together to act like one entity/computer. This form of computing in simple terms is when two or more computers come together, most commonly through a local network in order to use the processing power of all of the computers at once. There are three main types of computer clusters, firstly we have High availability clusters which in essence are a group of computers that are used to support server apps that can be reliably utilized, and are normally used to maintain redundant nodes that act as backup systems. Secondly, low balancing clusters is a networking methodology which distributes workloads across multiple computers or on computer clusters. It works by passing all work through one or more load-balancing nodes, which then distribute the workload between the remaining active nodes efficently. Lastly, we have the high-performance cluster the way a high-performance cluster works is using supercomputers and computers clusters to solve difficult computation problems. A HPC cluster is used and designed to exploit the processing power of all two or more nodes. A few advantages of cluster computing is, firstly is that cluster computing reduces the cost of processing power. Lastly, it has lots of system availability as using cluster computing offers a high system availability because of the redundency of OS (operating systems) and hardware. When it comes to communications, information sharing and collaborations; as each computer is connected with one another every piece of information can be shared with the click of a mouse, and each computer can talk to another with again the click of a mouse. Additionally, when collaborating for example through a high availability cluster each system is fully connected and are being used to support server apps, this is done by connecting a group of computers to act like one big computer, it is used to support server apps because of the high power all of the computers combined have. Along with this high availability clusters can be used within businesses to support their server apps which can be very convenient as it does not take a lot of resources to set up a part from several computers, which in the long run will reduce the cost of processing power. The working practise of a business can be changed completely when it comes to cluster computing as you do not need huge hardware with a huge amount of processing power to support servers all you need is a few computers that are all connected which most offices already have.

### Centralized 
This type of computing is where most if not all of the processing is done by one central server/computer. This computing enables the use of the central computers computing administration, resources and management, in essence the main computer is used/responsible for delivering app logic, processing and providing resources to all of the joint nodes. Similary to client/server computing centralized computing is where one or more client PCs are connect to a central server/computer. Normally, each joint computer has very little processing/computing capacitiy, they will normally have a display, a thin CPU with networking capabilities and some basic input devices. All of these connected PCs computing will be processed by the central computer. The central computer is a high-end server, which available resources such as the primary application, massive computing resources, high amount of storage and other high end computing resources/features. The connected nodes are fully dependent on the central server, for things like app access, computing, storage internet access and the more imporant one security. Lastly, the admin will monitor all client nodes from the central server interface. When collaborating and communicating it all goes through the main server this makes it easy to go about collaborating and communicating because it is all done from one computer; also with information sharing, each piece of information will go through the main pc at some point. It will pass through the main pc and get dropped off onto another. Additionally, the other pc's all rely on the main pc to tell them what to do and how to do it. This is why it is good for commercial use as the admin within an organisation that is using the pc's to store data or to data mine can control each of the computers from the main one with ease.

### Virtualized
This type of computing/network is made up of several segments called channels. These channels hold all available bandwitch within the network, each channel holds the same amount of bandwidth than the next. Each one of these channels act on there own terms and can be assigned/connected to any device that is on the same network as its own at that time. One of the first and easily most important benefit would be the reduced cost of a virtualized network. As this type of network requires less servers and hardware to run it reduces the overall cost spent on hardware, additionally in the long run this will also reduce energy cost. When it comes to information sharing, collaborations and communication as each channel is seperate and act alone they never have to communicate/speak to one another, the only type of collaborating and sharing they do is to the device they are connected too.

### OSI Model
There are several layers within the OSI model. Here are all 7:

Session - This layer is designed to create and manage the connections between applications; depdning on what type of application it is, either TCP od UDP will be used.

Physical - This layer is responsible for sending data through cables. It can send data in the from of electrical pulses, light pulses and bit stream.

Application - This layer is in charge of making sure that a service is provided to ensure efective communication between other application programs on a network. Additionally, within this layer different protocols are assigned to different types of data.

Transport - This layer as its name states is the way that data gets from point a to point b, this layer is in charge of getting it there and working out where certain data is meant to go.

Presentation - Before the data can be sent it must be encrypted or compressed, this is where this layer comes in. This layer is in charge of changing, compressing and encrypting data to suit wherever it is going.

Data link - Like the presentation layer this layer can also be used to encrypt data but this layer can decode the data too, to make it ready to be sent off to other layers.

Network - This layer makes sure each piece of data being sent will have the correct informtaion it needs to get to where its meant to be. Where travelling from node to node this layer will also create virtual circuits to help with the transmitting of data.

### TCP/IP Model
Application - This layer is used to assign the correct protocol to the correct type of data. Additionally, is is used to provide network services to applications. The network processes and protocols that are used within this layer are: Simple mail transport protocol (SMTP), File transfer protocol (FTP) and finally Hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP).

Transport - This layer is used to create and manage the communication between the reciever and the sender. There are two main protocols which are used in the running of this layer. One being UDP and the other TCP. UPD does not check if the data has been sent or recieved, it just send the data and hopes for thes best. Whereas within TCP there is a set system that checks to see if the reciever has recevied the data.

Internet - This layer will contain the packet construct that will be sent/transmitted. Additionally, it will organize the data into packets before it is sent off. To make sure the correct reciever recieves the correct packet the recievers IP address is used to pin point exactly where it should be transmitted.

Network access - This layer is in charge of interfacing with your networks's architecture. A few protocols carried out within this layer are mapping IP addresses to physical hardware addresses (MAC addresses), the encapsulation of the IP packets into frames for their  transportation and the use of protocols for the transmission of the data. This layer will also check the data that has been sent or recieved to see if it contains any errors.
























